Source: MrBallen Podcast — "Stranger than Fiction Vol. [TBD]" (multi-story compilation episode)
Story segment: "Stealing a Slice" (segment 2 of 3)
Extracted: 00:07:05 - end of 00:14:18 chunk (~7 minutes)
Other segments in the source episode ("What's Wrong with Mommy", "Peek Experience") and host intro/outro stripped — they are unrelated cases and would pollute claim extraction.

Auto-transcription quirks preserved verbatim (e.g. "Tom S. Monahan" should be "Tom Monaghan"; "Shambly, Georgia" should be "Chamblee, Georgia"; "Burnset" likely "Bernstein" or similar). Entity normalization happens in Stage 4, not here.

[00:07:05]
Our next story is called Stealing a Slice.

[00:07:15]
On January 30th, 1989, two young men were working the afternoon lunch shift at a Domino's Pizza restaurant in Shambly, Georgia. Their names were Darryl Wilson and Sean Burnset. In most weeks, this shift that they worked together was really boring because virtually nobody came into the restaurant. But on this day, at around 11:00 AM, as Darryl and Sean are twiddling their thumbs waiting for the shift to end, a man who was obviously disgruntled and very agitated stormed in the door carrying a gun, a 357 Magnum gun, so a really powerful handgun, and he aimed it straight at them. Darryl and Sean were so shocked by this that at first they didn't do anything. But then it dawned on them that, Oh, my goodness, this guy's coming in here to rob the place. And so Darryl and Sean suddenly put their hands up and they began saying, Okay, take whatever you want, take whatever you want. And the man suddenly began shouting something at them like he wanted something. And it took Darryl and Sean a second to understand what he was asking for. But when they started to process the things he was saying, they understood that this did not seem like a robbery.

[00:08:18]
The guy was demanding that they call Tom S. Monahan so he, this guy, the guy with the gun, can talk to Tom. Now, Darryl and Sean may have known this, but probably not because they likely didn't care. But Tom S. Monahan, at the time, was the owner of Domino's. Not like this particular restaurant in Shambly, Georgia, but like the entire national chain. He was the actual owner of the company. And so this guy is coming in being like, Let me talk to the owner of Domino's. And so at some point, Darryl and Sean understood who Tom S. Monahan was. Perhaps the guy with the gun explained it, or maybe one of them did know who Tom S. Monahan was. But either way, Darryl and Sean suddenly realized, Oh, my goodness, this guy wants to talk to the owner, but they have no way of getting in touch with the owner of Domino's. They're just pizza cooks. They're not connected to the C-suite. But when Darryl and Sean told the guy, Hey, we don't know how to get in touch with the literal owner of this major franchise, well, the guy didn't like that. He got really frantic and began yelling and screaming like, You got to do it.

[00:09:16]
You got to get Tom on the phone. And so Darryl and Sean are like, Okay. And they grab the phone and they try to call their own boss because they don't know who else to call. And as they're calling their own boss, this guy fires two shots into the ceiling. So this is a really high intensity situation that's escalating really quickly. But Daryl, who actually was the one on the phone, he did his best to stay calm. When his boss got on the other line, he tried his best to explain the situation as quickly as he could because he could tell this guy with the gun is very close to potentially shooting them. The boss of Darryl and Sean did understand, Okay, clearly there is a crisis happening at this branch. When Darryl said, You got to find a way to get Tom S. Monahan on the phone right now, his boss was like, I got it. A few minutes later, Darryl's boss, who's still on the phone with him, was like, Okay, I'm going to pass you through. Then a second later, Tom S. Monahan hops on the phone and he's like, What's going on?

[00:10:09]
At this point, Darryl just handed the phone over to the guy with the gun and said, Here you go. Tom's on the phone. The man with the gun grabbed the phone, put it to his ear, and then began rattling off these totally bizarre demands. He wanted a white limousine to show up to the restaurant to be his getaway car. He wanted $10,000 in cash, and he wanted a copy of a science fiction novel about the free Vincent's called The Widow's Son. Daryl and Sean, who are behind the counter witnessing this, they're hearing these demands, and it's clicking for them that clearly this guy is not mentally well. This is a guy who's totally unhinged and who knows what's going to happen. After a few minutes on the phone, the gunman hung up and then told Darryl and Sean very calmly that now the three of them were just going to sit in this restaurant and wait for his demands to be met. And for the next five and a half hours, that's what they did. Darryl, Sean, and the gunman who just kept the gun aimed at Darryl and Sean, they just sat inside of this restaurant.

[00:11:03]
And at the same time, by this point, the police have been called, and they're completely surrounding this restaurant. And when the gunman came into the store because this was a very slow day, there weren't any other customers or staff inside, so it really was just Darryl, Sean, and the gunman, and so it's a total standoff. But interestingly for Sean and Darryl, who were right there with this gunman, they started to sense that this guy was not here to hurt them. He was really after Tom S. Monahan, and over those five and a half hours, they were just sitting there with him with his gun aimed right at them, he periodically began telling them what his gripes were with Tom S. Monahan. The gunman told Darryl and Sean that Tom was specifically targeting him, the gunman, and also Tom was secretly communicating with the gunman when the gunman didn't want to talk to him, almost like telekinesis or something. Also, the gunman told them that Tom S. Monahan, periodically, will walk around his property at night, creeping around, scaring the gunman. Darryl and Sean, they're hearing these things and not believing any of it, but they were very empathetic and said, Oh, yeah, I can understand why that would be an issue.

[00:12:06]
I can understand why you'd come in here and demand to speak to Tom S. Monahan. Yep, totally get it. That was just how the day was going. Then around 4:30 PM, so they've been in there a long time by this point, the gunman told Daryl and Sean that he was really hungry, so they better go make him some pizzas. Daryl and Sean just got up. They went in the back. They made two large everything pizzas. After they were made, they put them in boxes and slid them across the counter to the gunman. At this moment, Darryl and Sean knew the gunman, in order to eat, would have to put his weapon down to open up the box and get the pizza. And so the second they handed it over without even communicating with each other, they waited for the gunman to put the gun down. And he did. He put the gun down, he opened the pizza up. He grabbed the slice. And at that moment, Darryl and Sean began sprinting past him towards the door. And the gunman who's seeing this happen, he drops the pizza, he grabs the gun, and he turns, and he aims.

[00:13:00]
So to really understand what's happening here, you need to understand what type of marketing Domino's, like the national franchise, was doing to advertise their product. Starting in 1985, Domino's came up with a very popular advertising campaign called The Noid. And The Noid was actually a character. It was like this weird claymation character with big sneakers and bunny ears. It was like this goofy thing that was the equivalent of McDonald's Hamburgler, but this was for pizza. And what Domino's did with The Noid is they would run these ads on TV where the noid was like this menace who was always out to disrupt pizza deliveries. Not necessarily domino's pizza deliveries, but generally pizza deliveries, it's like the noid is going to destroy them either by freezing the pizzas on their way to the person's house or smashing them into the ground or causing whatever mayhem the noid could create to stop pizzas from getting to their customers. And so domino's catchy thing was avoid the noid with dominoes, meaning Domino's, the chain, was the only chain capable of avoiding all the chaos that could disrupt you getting the thing you want, your pizza. And this advertising campaign was brilliant, not only because it really worked, people really liked Domino's because it did seem like they were superior, but also they were able to franchise this character itself, The Noid.

[00:14:18]
It became a toy you could buy, and there was talk about doing a TV show and maybe a movie around this Noid character. And Michael Jackson, like the king of pop, he put The Noid in one of his music videos. I mean, this was a really, really successful advertising campaign. But for as successful as this campaign was, it did unfortunately lead to what happened inside of this Domino's restaurant in Shambly, Georgia. So on the day, this gunman came charging in and held up the place aiming the gun at Sean and Darryl, it would turn out the gunman's name was Kenneth Lamar Noyde. And Kenneth Lamar Noid was not going into the store to get money or to steal food or to hurt Darryl or Sean. He was there to get his revenge on Tom S. Monahan, who he looked at as the person responsible for coming up with this Noid campaign. Because Kenneth Lamar Noid was very mentally ill, and he believed the Avoid the Noid campaign was not a marketing campaign, but rather Tom S. Monahan, specifically targeting Kenneth Lamar Noid, basically making him out to be this big villain. But Kenneth's plan for how to deal with this totally backfired because in a totally ironic twist, by holding up this Domino's franchise and creating this huge standoff, he literally became like the Noid because no pizza deliveries could be had that entire day out of that franchise. And so Kenneth Lamar Noid, in an effort to stop Tom S. Monahan from running this Noid campaign because I'm no villain, I don't go after pizzas, I don't try to stop people from getting their pizzas. In an effort to do that, that is exactly what he did. He literally became the human version of the Noid. And so after Darryl and Sean made a run for it towards the door, Kenneth did grab his gun, and he did aim it at the two men, and he even fired it a couple of times, but he missed, and Darryl and Sean were totally unhurt. In fact, nobody got hurt. All that happened is Kenneth Lamar Noid looked like the Noid, and he got arrested. However, instead of going to jail, he was sent to a psychiatric hospital. As for the actual advertising campaign itself, which was very successful, avoid the Noyde, well, it would not survive this total PR nightmare, and Tom S. Monahan canceled it immediately after Kenneth Lamar Noyde was taken off. So in a weird way, Kenneth actually did get his revenge.
